README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SpamScope/spamscope.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/SpamScope/spamscope)

![SpamScope](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SpamScope/spamscope/develop/docs/logo/spamscope.png)


## Overview
SpamScope is an advanced spam analysis tool that use [Apache Storm](http://storm.apache.org/) with [streamparse](https://github.com/Parsely/streamparse) to process a stream of mails. 

It's possible to analyze more than 5 milions of mails (without attachments processors) for day with a 4 cores server and 4 GB of RAM. 

![Schema topology](docs/images/schema_topology.png?raw=true "Schema topology")

### Distributed
SpamScope use Apache Storm that allows you to start small and scale horizontally as you grow. Simply add more worker.

### Flexibility
You can chose your mails input sources (with spouts) and your functionalities (with bolts). SpamScope come with a tokenizer (split mail in token: headers, body, attachments), attachments and phishing analyzer (Which is the target of mails? Is there a malware in attachment?) and JSON output.

### Store where you want
You can build your custom output bolts and store your data in Elasticsearch, Mongo, filesystem, etc.

### Build your topology
With streamparse tecnology you can build your topology in Python, add and/or remove spouts and bolts.

### Apache 2 Open Source License
SpamScope can be downloaded, used, and modified free of charge. It is available under the Apache 2 license.


[![Donate](https://www.paypal.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif "Donate")](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=VEPXYP745KJF2)



## Output example
  - [Raw mail](https://goo.gl/wMBfbF).
  - [SpamScope output](https://goo.gl/MS7ugy).
  - [SpamScope output with Thug](https://goo.gl/Y4kWCv).



## Authors

### Main Author
 Fedele Mantuano (**Twitter**: [@fedelemantuano](https://twitter.com/fedelemantuano))



## Installation
For more details please visit the [wiki page](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation).

Clone repository

```
git clone https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope.git
```

Enter in SpamScope directory install it:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py install
```

### Faup
[Faup](https://github.com/stricaud/faup) stands for Finally An Url Parser and is a library and command line tool to parse URLs and normalize fields.
To install it follow the [wiki](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation#faup).

### Tika (optional)
SpamScope can use [Tika App](https://tika.apache.org/) to parse every attachment mail.
The **Apache Tika** toolkit detects and extracts metadata and text from over a thousand different file types (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF).
To install it follow the [wiki](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation#tika-app-optional).
To enable Apache Tika analisys, you should set it in `attachments` section.

### Thug (optional)
From release v1.3 SpamScope can analyze Javascript and HTML attachments with [Thug](https://github.com/buffer/thug).
If you want to analyze the attachments with Thug, follow [these instructions](http://buffer.github.io/thug/doc/build.html) to install it and enable it in `attachments` section.

What is Thug? From README project:
```
Thug is a Python low-interaction honeyclient aimed at mimicing the behavior of a web browser in order to detect and emulate malicious contents.
```

You can see a complete SpamScope report with Thug analysis [here](https://goo.gl/Y4kWCv).

### VirusTotal (optional)
It's possible add to results (for mail attachments) VirusTotal report. You need a private API key.

### Elasticsearch (optional)
It's possible to store the results in Elasticsearch. In this case you should install `elasticsearch` package.

### Redis (optional)
It's possible to store the results in Redis. In this case you should install `redis` package.



## Configuration
For more details please visit the [wiki page](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Configuration) or read the comments in the files in `conf` folder.

From SpamScope v1.1 you can decide to **filter mails and attachments** already analyzed. If you enable filter in `tokenizer` section you will enable the RAM database and
SpamScope will check on it to decide if mail/attachment is already analyzed or not. If the mail is in RAM database, SpamScope will not analyze it and will store only the hashes.



## Usage
SpamScope comes with four topologies:
   - spamscope_debug
   - spamscope_elasticsearch
   - spamscope_redis
   - spamscope_testing

and a general configuration file `spamscope.example.yml` in `conf/` folder.


If you want submit SpamScope topology use `spamscope-topology submit` tool. For more details `spamscope-topology submit -h`:

```
$ spamscope-topology submit --topology {spamscope_debug,spamscope_elasticsearch,spamscope_redis,spamscope_testing}
```

There are some options that you can use.

### Important
It's very important to set the main configuration file. The default value is `/etc/spamscope/spamscope.yml`, but it's possible to set the environment variable `SPAMSCOPE_CONF_FILE`:

```
$ export SPAMSCOPE_CONF_FILE=/etc/spamscope/spamscope.yml
```

If you use Elasticsearch output, I suggest you to use Elasticsearch template that comes with SpamScope.

### Apache Storm settings
It's possible change the default settings for all Apache Storm options. I suggest for SpamScope these options:

 - **topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs**: reload configuration of all bolts
 - **topology.max.spout.pending**: Apache Storm framework will then throttle your spout as needed to meet the `topology.max.spout.pending` requirement
 - **topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms**: max sleep for emit new tuple (mail)

If you don't enable Apache Tika, Thug and VirusTotal, could use:

```
topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs: 60
topology.max.spout.pending: 500
topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms: 10
```

If **Apache Tika** is enabled:

```
topology.max.spout.pending: 200
```

To submit above options use:

```
sparse submit -f --name topology -o "topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs=60" -o "topology.max.spout.pending=200" -o "topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms=10"
```

**Thug** analysis can be very slow, it depends from attachment. To avoid Apache Storm timeout, you should use these two switches when submit the topology:

```
supervisor.worker.timeout.secs=600
topology.message.timeout.secs=600
```

As you can see, the timeouts are both to 600 seconds. 600 seconds is the default timeout of Thug. 

The complete command is:
```
sparse submit -f --name topology -o "topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs=60" -o "topology.max.spout.pending=50" -o "topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms=10" -o "supervisor.worker.timeout.secs=600" -o "topology.message.timeout.secs=600"
```

For more details you can refer [here](http://streamparse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html).


To simplify this operation, SpamScope comes with a custom tool `spamscope-topology submit` where you can choose the values of all these parameters.



## Unittest
SpamScope comes with unittests for each its modules. In bolts and spouts there are no special features, all intelligence is in external modules.
All unittests are in `tests` folder.

To have complete tests you should set the followings variables enviroment:

```
$ export THUG_ENABLED=True
$ export VIRUSTOTAL_ENABLED=True
$ export VIRUSTOTAL_APIKEY=only_your_own_virustotal_api
```



## Docker image
It's possible to use complete Docker images with Apache Storm and SpamScope. Take the following images:

 - [Root](https://hub.docker.com/r/fmantuano/spamscope-root/)
 - [Elasticsearch](https://hub.docker.com/r/fmantuano/spamscope-elasticsearch/)



## Screenshots
![Apache Storm](docs/images/Docker00.png?raw=true "Apache Storm")

![SpamScope](docs/images/Docker01.png?raw=true "SpamScope")

![SpamScope Topology](docs/images/Docker02.png?raw=true "SpamScope Topology")

Commit message:

- New command line tool to save on file system payload attachments. - Fixed bugs - Updated README

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SpamScope/spamscope.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/SpamScope/spamscope)

![SpamScope](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SpamScope/spamscope/develop/docs/logo/spamscope.png)


## Overview
SpamScope is an advanced spam analysis tool that use [Apache Storm](http://storm.apache.org/) with [streamparse](https://github.com/Parsely/streamparse) to process a stream of mails. 

It's possible to analyze more than 5 milions of mails (without attachments post processors) for day with a 4 cores server and 4 GB of RAM. 

![Schema topology](docs/images/schema_topology.png?raw=true "Schema topology")

### Why should I use SpamScope
- It's very fast: the job is splitted in functionalities that work in parallel.
- It's flexible: you can chose what SpamScope has to do.
- It's distributed: SpamScope uses Apache Storm, free and open source distributed realtime computation system.
- It makes JSON output that you can save where you want.
- It's easy to setup: there are docker images and docker-compose ready for use.
- It's integrated with Apache Tika, VirusTotal and Thug (for now).
- It's free (for special functions you can contact me).

### Distributed
SpamScope use Apache Storm that allows you to start small and scale horizontally as you grow. Simply add more worker.

### Flexibility
You can chose your mails input sources (with spouts) and your functionalities (with bolts). SpamScope come with a tokenizer (split mail in token: headers, body, attachments), attachments and phishing analyzer (Which is the target of mails? Is there a malware in attachment?) and JSON output.

### Store where you want
You can build your custom output bolts and store your data in Elasticsearch, Mongo, filesystem, etc.

### Build your topology
With streamparse tecnology you can build your topology in Python, add and/or remove spouts and bolts.

### API
For now SpamScope doesn't have its own API, because it isn't tied to any tecnology.
If you use `Redis` as spout (input), you'll use Redis API to put mails in topology.
If you use `Elasticsearch` as output, you'll use Elasticsearch API to get results.

It's possible to develop a middleware API that it talks with input, output and changes the configuration, but now there isn't.

### Apache 2 Open Source License
SpamScope can be downloaded, used, and modified free of charge. It is available under the Apache 2 license.


[![Donate](https://www.paypal.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif "Donate")](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=VEPXYP745KJF2)



## Output example
  - [Raw mail](https://goo.gl/wMBfbF).
  - [SpamScope output](https://goo.gl/MS7ugy).
  - [SpamScope output with Thug](https://goo.gl/Y4kWCv).



## Authors

### Main Author
 Fedele Mantuano (**Twitter**: [@fedelemantuano](https://twitter.com/fedelemantuano))



## Installation
For more details please visit the [wiki page](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation).

Clone repository

```
git clone https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope.git
```

Enter in SpamScope directory install it:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py install
```

### Faup
[Faup](https://github.com/stricaud/faup) stands for Finally An Url Parser and is a library and command line tool to parse URLs and normalize fields.
To install it follow the [wiki](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation#faup).

### Tika (optional)
SpamScope can use [Tika App](https://tika.apache.org/) to parse every attachment mail.
The **Apache Tika** toolkit detects and extracts metadata and text from over a thousand different file types (such as PPT, XLS, and PDF).
To install it follow the [wiki](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Installation#tika-app-optional).
To enable Apache Tika analisys, you should set it in `attachments` section.

### Thug (optional)
From release v1.3 SpamScope can analyze Javascript and HTML attachments with [Thug](https://github.com/buffer/thug).
If you want to analyze the attachments with Thug, follow [these instructions](http://buffer.github.io/thug/doc/build.html) to install it and enable it in `attachments` section.

What is Thug? From README project:
```
Thug is a Python low-interaction honeyclient aimed at mimicing the behavior of a web browser in order to detect and emulate malicious contents.
```

You can see a complete SpamScope report with Thug analysis [here](https://goo.gl/Y4kWCv).

### VirusTotal (optional)
It's possible add to results (for mail attachments) VirusTotal report. You need a private API key.

### Elasticsearch (optional)
It's possible to store the results in Elasticsearch. In this case you should install `elasticsearch` package.

### Redis (optional)
It's possible to store the results in Redis. In this case you should install `redis` package.



## Configuration
For more details please visit the [wiki page](https://github.com/SpamScope/spamscope/wiki/Configuration) or read the comments in the files in `conf` folder.

From SpamScope v1.1 you can decide to **filter mails and attachments** already analyzed. If you enable filter in `tokenizer` section you will enable the RAM database and
SpamScope will check on it to decide if mail/attachment is already analyzed or not. If the mail is in RAM database, SpamScope will not analyze it and will store only the hashes.



## Usage
SpamScope comes with four topologies:
   - spamscope_debug
   - spamscope_elasticsearch
   - spamscope_redis
   - spamscope_testing

and a general configuration file `spamscope.example.yml` in `conf/` folder.


If you want submit SpamScope topology use `spamscope-topology submit` tool. For more details `spamscope-topology submit -h`:

```
$ spamscope-topology submit --topology {spamscope_debug,spamscope_elasticsearch,spamscope_redis,spamscope_testing}
```

There are some options that you can use.

### Important
It's very important to set the main configuration file. The default value is `/etc/spamscope/spamscope.yml`, but it's possible to set the environment variable `SPAMSCOPE_CONF_FILE`:

```
$ export SPAMSCOPE_CONF_FILE=/etc/spamscope/spamscope.yml
```

If you use Elasticsearch output, I suggest you to use Elasticsearch template that comes with SpamScope.

### Apache Storm settings
It's possible change the default settings for all Apache Storm options. I suggest for SpamScope these options:

 - **topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs**: reload configuration of all bolts
 - **topology.max.spout.pending**: Apache Storm framework will then throttle your spout as needed to meet the `topology.max.spout.pending` requirement
 - **topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms**: max sleep for emit new tuple (mail)

If you don't enable Apache Tika, Thug and VirusTotal, could use:

```
topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs: 60
topology.max.spout.pending: 500
topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms: 10
```

If **Apache Tika** is enabled:

```
topology.max.spout.pending: 200
```

To submit above options use:

```
sparse submit -f --name topology -o "topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs=60" -o "topology.max.spout.pending=200" -o "topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms=10"
```

**Thug** analysis can be very slow, it depends from attachment. To avoid Apache Storm timeout, you should use these two switches when submit the topology:

```
supervisor.worker.timeout.secs=600
topology.message.timeout.secs=600
```

As you can see, the timeouts are both to 600 seconds. 600 seconds is the default timeout of Thug. 

The complete command is:
```
sparse submit -f --name topology -o "topology.tick.tuple.freq.secs=60" -o "topology.max.spout.pending=50" -o "topology.sleep.spout.wait.strategy.time.ms=10" -o "supervisor.worker.timeout.secs=600" -o "topology.message.timeout.secs=600"
```

For more details you can refer [here](http://streamparse.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html).


To simplify this operation, SpamScope comes with a custom tool `spamscope-topology submit` where you can choose the values of all these parameters.



## Unittest
SpamScope comes with unittests for each its modules. In bolts and spouts there are no special features, all intelligence is in external modules.
All unittests are in `tests` folder.

To have complete tests you should set the followings variables enviroment:

```
$ export THUG_ENABLED=True
$ export VIRUSTOTAL_ENABLED=True
$ export VIRUSTOTAL_APIKEY=only_your_own_virustotal_api
```



## Docker image
It's possible to use complete Docker images with Apache Storm and SpamScope. Take the following images:

 - [Root](https://hub.docker.com/r/fmantuano/spamscope-root/)
 - [Elasticsearch](https://hub.docker.com/r/fmantuano/spamscope-elasticsearch/)



## Screenshots
![Apache Storm](docs/images/Docker00.png?raw=true "Apache Storm")

![SpamScope](docs/images/Docker01.png?raw=true "SpamScope")

![SpamScope Topology](docs/images/Docker02.png?raw=true "SpamScope Topology")
